In this demo,
some of the things that we're going to be doing includes
getting familiar with the Amazon Athena Console,
creating a database and a table with Amazon Athena,
and querying the data with SQL in the Amazon Athena Query Editor.
Log into your AWS Management Console.
Start typing Athena in the search bar, and when you see it, click on it.
This is the Amazon Athena Query Editor.
It opens up with a sample of writing Hive DDL statements
and using ANSI SQL to query the tables, which is great if you're a beginner.
At the top, there's a tab that reads Tutorial,
and if you click that,
there's actually a wizard that walks you through creating a table for
Elastic Load Balancer Data using Amazon Athena,
which I think is pretty cool.
It's integrated right into the console of Amazon Athena.
Let's take a quick look at the Amazon Athena interface.
You have the Query Editor where you'll be spending most of your time.
You have a tab for Saved Queries, and if you click on it,
you get your list of saved queries,
which is more important than you think because the whole goal of creating
queries in Amazon Athena is to be able to use the same queries over and over
again on the same data as the schema changes.
So when you write your queries, you have to kind of keep that in mind.
There's also a History tab, and if you click on that,
you have your history for 45 days, where you get a lot of information,
including if the query succeeded or failed,
the runtime, the amount of data scanned,
and you can also download the results and do whatever you
need to with those particular queries.
If you click on the Settings tab,
you can set the Query result location to be wherever
you want it to be in Amazon S3, as well as a couple of other setting tweaks.
Anything that you change in the Settings popup doesn't apply to past queries,
but it does apply to anything moving forward.
There's also a tab for the Workgroup that you're using.
I'll explain workgroups for you in an upcoming section.
Let's click on the Workgroup tab.
If you don't create a workgroup by default,
Amazon Athena associates a primary workgroup to your Athena instances.
If I click the radio button next to the primary workgroup,
and I click on View details,
it opens up four tabs that gives you more information about cost control,
metrics, and other things having to do with a workgroup,
which are primarily used within companies or a team to
isolate certain people into workgroups.
Let's return to the Query Editor.
Under the Database pane, if you click the drop-down list,
it will show you all the databases that you've worked with in Amazon Athena.
So let's create a database.
This is a bare-bones CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS DDL statement,
and when we create a table,
we're going to create it in the sakiladb because the table will hold
information about NBA players for Globomantics.
This bare-bones DDL statement creates a database
with the IF NOT EXISTS parameter, we're adding a comment,
we're adding a location in S3, and we're defining some database properties.
So let's run this CREATE DATABASE, and it says the query was successful.
So, let's go over to the Database pane, click the Refresh button,
and then look for the name of the whatever database in the drop-down list,
and right here is whatever.
You can also create databases very simply by just staying
create database and giving it a name.
Let's run this, and it says the query is successful, and here is kimmysdatabase.
So it's pretty easy to create a database,
and whatever properties that you want to include is great,
but you really don't have to.
Now you will have to add some of the mandatory
properties later like the S3 location,
but let's say if you wanted a placeholder with a particular name,
you could do it this way rather than stating everything upon database creation.
I've zoomed out in the browser so that we can see the entire CREATE EXTERNAL
TABLE command because what we're going to do right now is create a new table
and then look at it in the Glue Data Catalog.
We're going to create this table in the sakila database because
the sakila database contains all the tables that have to do
with NBA players for Globomantics.
We give the table a name, which is nba_elo.
The Elo rating system is a way to calculate the relative
skill levels of players in zero-sum games.
The Elo system was originally invented as an improved chess
rating system over the previously-used system,
but it's also used as a rating system for multiplayer
competitions in a number of video games,
football, basketball, baseball, table tennis,
Scrabble, and different board games.
So in the table definition, we have the name,
the column names, the data type for the column names,
row format is delimited by a comma, it has an input format,
an output format, the location in S3, and various table properties.
I've returned the browser size to the 100%, so we get to see more of the screen.
Let's run this, and if I move this up, you can see that the query was successful.
And if we look over here, automatically it shows.
So we have the nbaelo_nba_elo_, table, and these are the columns.
So now, let's query the new table.
SELECT * FROM sakiladb database .nbaelo_nba_elo,
and I'm going to limit this to 100 rows.
Let's run this, and move this up, and here we have it.
It's a very interesting dataset if you look at the information and
look up what it all means because it's a big deal every year to have
the Elo predictions for each NBA player.
Returning to the Query Editor after scrolling through the results of the query,
notice after you've run a SELECT query, you have the option to Save the query,
you can Create a table from the query, and Create a view from the query.
You can also format if you want to.
So now let's look at the Glue Data Catalog for this entry of the NBA Elo table,
and you can go right there from a tab in Amazon Athena's interface.
And we are in the sakiladb, and right here we have nba_elo.
So it's really cool that AWS Glue and Amazon Athena share the same data
catalog because that's very powerful in so far as eliminating data silos and
having one source of truth for all of your data,
no matter where it exists.
And you can click on the name of the table to see the properties,
statistics, schema,
and more like we've done when we've created other
tables in the Glue Data Catalog.
In the next section, I'll cover using workgroups in Amazon Athena,
using partitions in Amazon Athena tables,
and monitoring Athena, which is kind of tricky because the data is instantaneous,
and it's ephemeral, I mean it just happens in a second,
and how do you capture that information in order to see what's going on?
Well, I'll show you how in the next section. See you there.